---
title: The dark spots in Typescript
---
While Typescript is growing more and more on me and is starting to compete with my most favourite programming language however there's a nail in the eye that I would like to get head. Of course there are many problems in all tool which you need to weigh in when comparing them, but this is

Typescript does have type definition files. These are special files that does not contain any actual code, just type definitions. The usage for this kind of files is to get the power of Typescript when using libraries that are not written in Typescript. For example when you use React, which is not written in Typescript you could expect that you doesn't have any type information on any of the methods or classes. However by just installing the definition file from DefinitelyTyped by the command `tsd query react --action install --save` you get full type information of everything. The React.Component base class even becomes generic where you can specify the type of the props which is checked whenever you use the component in a JSX element. Great right? Sure, the command is a bit weird but that's an uninteresting detail.

The problem becomes real when the typings you want does not exist on DefinitelyTyped or if the typings are incomplete, or outdated. One example of this is the react-router module, the typings are for version 0.13 but all examples on using it uses the 1.0 rc. And what makes this a big problem is that there are no backup solution. In a `package.json` you can just specify a git repository if the package you need isn't published. But with tsd you are screwed. All of your typings has to live in a single repository. Sure you can specify the repository, but if you want to do that to use your fix to the desired typing file you also have to host every single other typing file that you need.
