---
title: Unexpected math problems and code reuse
permalink: math-problems-and-reasuing-code
---
When I heard the idea behind Jespers project Cetti I got very interested and started to brainstorm ideas together with him which ended up en me creating a PR with a basic dashboard last week. This week I started on a graph or chart widget for that dashboard. I submitted a basic implementation yesterday and intimidate started on an improvement. The improvement were to add smoothing to the line chart so it stopped being so stiff and instead feel much more organic.

The chart is rendered by SVG and as I have worked with SVG before I recalled a bit of older code that I have written and started porting that from Dart to Typescript. However after I have ported that and saw the result I realized that it did exactly the inverse of what I wanted to do which I could have figured out if I had just stopped for a quick taught. Too smooth a line you need to interpolate more data than you have, however the code I ported did instead remove data because it were used in an application that supported hand drawing of lines and that generates loads of data points. So I started looking up algorithms for interpolating data instead and when I read Catmull Rom Spline, which is one of those, I recalled another piece of code which I have written with a friend years ago. We were working on a clone of Audiosurf which is a game where a music file is analyzed and turned into a track. We were then using the Catmull algorithm for smoothing the track. So I ported that code instead, this time from Java, and this time it turned out great.

So I guess the conclusion one can draw is that you should always know what you should do before you start porting old code :) And if you do not store old code, start! Having the possibility to pull solutions to already solved problems is pretty rewarding when it means that you can avoid spending days to read up on algorithms you have already spent that time on.
